Whether you’re in school or not,
you’re probably under a lot of pressure.
Not just from all the studying
and those piles of homework.
But pressure from other kids.
Pressure to have sex.
Or cheat.
Or maybe it’s to smoke or take drugs.
Of course,
you know what they want you to do is bad,
but at times you may feel
like you’re missing out
if you don’t join them.
You’re not alone.
Since the world began, young people
have been dealing with peer pressure.
But it doesn’t mean you have to give in.
The Bible has some good advice.
Exodus 23:2 tells us
not to just follow after the crowd.
In other words, don’t do something
just because everyone else is doing it.
Instead, be your own person.
How do you get the strength
to stand up to peer pressure?
Here are four steps that can help.
First,
keep on the lookout for moral dangers,
and identify any situations
where you might be pressured
to do something wrong.
If you see trouble coming your way,
don’t walk right into it!
Find another route, and avoid the problem.
The second step:
Stop and take the time to think.
Think about the consequences
before you give in to peer pressure.
In Proverbs 14:15, the Bible says:
‘Smart people watch their step.’
So don’t just jump in and do what others say.
That may be hard to do
if you’re trying to fit in.
But that’s the time to use your imagination.
How will I feel later if I give in?
What might be the outcome?
How might my actions affect others
who care about me the most?
Step three: You need to plan ahead.
Proverbs 24:5 says
that a person who has knowledge
“increases his power.”
If you know exactly
why  you’re saying no to something,
why something is bad,
it can give you the strength to say no.
Now, the fourth step: Take action.
No, you don’t have
to give your peers a lecture.
Just say no, clearly and confidently.
You may be surprised at their reaction.
Each time take a stand
for what you know is right,
you get stronger and stronger.
And that makes it easier to resist
the pressure the next time.
You don’t need to be rude,
but you could give a reason
why you wouldn’t want to join in.
And if they do keep pressuring you,
just remember this:
Giving in to peer pressure
is kind of like being turned into a puppet
—with your peers pulling the strings.
You can’t hide from peer pressure,
but you can stand up to it.
Remember to keep on the lookout.
Think about the consequences.
Plan ahead.
Take action.
Facing up to peer pressure
can be scary at times.
But when you do,
you show the decisions you make
really are your own.